README.md, before:

# Go Discover App

A modern travel discovery application built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## Features

- Interactive travel discovery interface
- Location-based recommendations
- Category-based exploration
- Modern UI with shadcn/ui components
- **Google Maps integration** with interactive markers
- Dark/Light mode toggle

## Technologies Used

- React 18
- TypeScript
- Vite
- Tailwind CSS
- shadcn/ui
- React Router (with v7 future flags enabled)
- Lucide React Icons
- **Google Maps React Wrapper**

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 18 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- **Google Maps API Key** (for map functionality)

### Google Maps Setup

1. **Get API Key**: Visit [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials) and create a new project
2. **Enable Maps JavaScript API**: In your project, enable the "Maps JavaScript API"
3. **Create Credentials**: Create an API key for the Maps JavaScript API
4. **Create Map ID** (for Advanced Markers):
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console Maps Management](https://console.cloud.google.com/google/maps-apis/maps-management)
   - Click "Create Map ID"
   - Give it a name (e.g., "go-discover-app-map")
   - Copy the Map ID (format: `map_id_1234567890abcdef`)
5. **Environment Setup**: Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
   ```bash
   VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_actual_api_key_here
   VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_MAP_ID=your_map_id_here
   ```

**Note**: The app will work with just Google Places API. RapidAPI is optional for additional data sources.

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd go-discover-app
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up your API keys (see above)

4. Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

5. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8083`

## Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/     # Reusable UI components
│   ├── ui/        # UI components including GoogleMap
│   ├── Home/      # Home page components
│   └── Layout/    # Layout components
├── pages/         # Page components
├── hooks/         # Custom React hooks
├── services/      # API services
├── contexts/      # React contexts
├── lib/           # Utility functions
└── assets/        # Static assets
```

## Features

### Map Features

- **Interactive Google Maps**: Real-time map with markers
- **Location Markers**: Clickable markers for nearby places
- **Responsive Design**: Maps adapt to different screen sizes
- **Custom Styling**: Clean, modern map appearance
- **Marker Interactions**: Click handlers for place details

### Restaurant Features

- **Zoom-based Loading**: Restaurants load when zoomed to level 14+
- **Real-time Data**: Fetches restaurants from Google Places API
- **Location-aware**: Shows restaurants near user's location
- **Debounced Search**: Efficient API calls with debouncing
- **Fallback Data**: Mock data when API is unavailable

### Animation Features

- **GSAP Animations**: Smooth entrance and interaction animations
- **Scroll-triggered**: Animations activate on scroll
- **Hover Effects**: Interactive card and button animations
- **Loading States**: Animated loading indicators

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Enhance README with optional restaurant data setup instructions and add API connectivity testing feature in restaurant service. Implement button in Search page to test API connections, improving user experience and debugging capabilities.

README.md, after:

# Go Discover App

A modern travel discovery application built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## Features

- Interactive travel discovery interface
- Location-based recommendations
- Category-based exploration
- Modern UI with shadcn/ui components
- **Google Maps integration** with interactive markers
- Dark/Light mode toggle

## Technologies Used

- React 18
- TypeScript
- Vite
- Tailwind CSS
- shadcn/ui
- React Router (with v7 future flags enabled)
- Lucide React Icons
- **Google Maps React Wrapper**

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js (version 18 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- **Google Maps API Key** (for map functionality)

### Google Maps Setup

1. **Get API Key**: Visit [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/apis/credentials) and create a new project
2. **Enable Maps JavaScript API**: In your project, enable the "Maps JavaScript API"
3. **Create Credentials**: Create an API key for the Maps JavaScript API
4. **Create Map ID** (for Advanced Markers):
   - Go to [Google Cloud Console Maps Management](https://console.cloud.google.com/google/maps-apis/maps-management)
   - Click "Create Map ID"
   - Give it a name (e.g., "go-discover-app-map")
   - Copy the Map ID (format: `map_id_1234567890abcdef`)
5. **Environment Setup**: Create a `.env` file in the root directory:
   ```bash
   VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_actual_api_key_here
   VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_MAP_ID=your_map_id_here
   ```

**Note**: The app will work with just Google Places API. RapidAPI is optional for additional data sources.

### Restaurant Data Setup (Optional)

To get real restaurant data instead of mock data, you can set up additional API keys:

#### Option 1: Google Places API (Recommended)

The app already uses Google Places API as a fallback. Just make sure your Google Maps API key has the "Places API" enabled in the Google Cloud Console.

#### Option 2: RapidAPI Travel Advisor (Additional)

1. **Get RapidAPI Key**: Visit [RapidAPI](https://rapidapi.com/) and sign up
2. **Subscribe to Travel Advisor**: Search for "Travel Advisor" and subscribe to the free tier
3. **Get API Key**: Copy your RapidAPI key from your dashboard
4. **Add to Environment**: Add to your `.env` file:
   ```bash
   VITE_RAPIDAPI_KEY=your_rapidapi_key_here
   ```

**Complete .env file example:**

```bash
VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_API_KEY=your_google_maps_api_key_here
VITE_GOOGLE_MAPS_MAP_ID=your_map_id_here
VITE_RAPIDAPI_KEY=your_rapidapi_key_here
```

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd go-discover-app
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

3. Set up your API keys (see above)

4. Start the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

5. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8083`

## Available Scripts

- `npm run dev` - Start development server
- `npm run build` - Build for production
- `npm run preview` - Preview production build
- `npm run lint` - Run ESLint

## Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/     # Reusable UI components
│   ├── ui/        # UI components including GoogleMap
│   ├── Home/      # Home page components
│   └── Layout/    # Layout components
├── pages/         # Page components
├── hooks/         # Custom React hooks
├── services/      # API services
├── contexts/      # React contexts
├── lib/           # Utility functions
└── assets/        # Static assets
```

## Features

### Map Features

- **Interactive Google Maps**: Real-time map with markers
- **Location Markers**: Clickable markers for nearby places
- **Responsive Design**: Maps adapt to different screen sizes
- **Custom Styling**: Clean, modern map appearance
- **Marker Interactions**: Click handlers for place details

### Restaurant Features

- **Zoom-based Loading**: Restaurants load when zoomed to level 14+
- **Real-time Data**: Fetches restaurants from Google Places API
- **Location-aware**: Shows restaurants near user's location
- **Debounced Search**: Efficient API calls with debouncing
- **Fallback Data**: Mock data when API is unavailable

### Animation Features

- **GSAP Animations**: Smooth entrance and interaction animations
- **Scroll-triggered**: Animations activate on scroll
- **Hover Effects**: Interactive card and button animations
- **Loading States**: Animated loading indicators

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Submit a pull request

## License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
